LLM/AI-generated text can be detected using LLM watermarks. However, can watermarks be easily scrubbed off by paraphrasing or editing the #AI generated text? 
New research from University of Maryland researchers shows watermark removal is way harder than one thinks!

👉What are LLM watermarks? 
LLM watermarks are word patterns embedded in LLM outputs such that the content can be proven to be machine-generated. 
Since LLMs sample words from probability distributions, the word selection can be done in a manner that encodes a hidden pattern, i.e., a watermark. 
High accuracy of machine-generated text detection usually requires 50-ish words.

👉Can watermarks be scrubbed off? 
To answer this question, the researchers generated watermarked text and then asked people to remove the watermark. 
In another experiment, they used a GPT model to rewrite to remove the watermark.

👉Findings: 
1) Completely scrubbing off watermarks is way harder than one thinks.
2) When humans rewrite AI-generated text, they can not completely eliminate the watermark, but make it harder to detect. Detecting watermarks in rewritten text requires 1100 tokens for accurate detection, 
i.e., 22x more than the original. 
3) Humans can't de-watermark well because it is hard for them to know which words are part of the watermark. 
4) Rewriting LLM-generated text using GPT is not as successful. Detecting watermarks in GPT-rewritten text needs 500 tokens, i.e., 10x more than the original text. 
5) GPT models dont scrub off watermarks well because they reuse several original phrases when rewriting.  
6) This doesn't mean that watermarks can not be removed. One can very meticulously scrub off watermarks or use specialized LLMs to do so.

👉Why is this finding important? 
Watermarks have been suggested as a reliable technique to discern human-written from machine-generated text. 
This becomes important, for example, when flagging machine-generated harmful content, spam campaigns, or targeted advertisements. 
The ability to remove watermarks will reduce their usability in practice.

More details in the paper: https://lnkd.in/gMpZf8Dz
"On the Reliability of Watermarks for Large Language Models" 
by John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, Yuxin Wen, Manli Shu, Khalid Saifullah, Kezhi Kong, Kasun Fernando, Aniruddha Saha, Micah Goldblum, Tom Goldstein

